---
title: Daily Themes
category: Community Service
subcategory: Program
order: 2
order_number: 2
---

### ​​​**Theme: Worth It**

<div><p>We all struggle at times with a sense of worth or significance. Am I worthy of what I receive? This can be both positive &ndash; &ldquo;Do I deserve the gifts I&rsquo;ve been given?&rdquo; Or negative &ndash; &ldquo;Why did this bad thing happen to me?&rdquo; This summer at Group Mission Trips your group will experience a fresh look at the idea of worth through the parable of the prodigal son. (Luke 15:11-32 NIV).</p><p>Many people know the basics of the story. The son who ran off with his inheritance and lost it all. The father who welcomed him back with open arms. The older son who stayed home, helped run the family business, and kept his nose clean is now shocked at the outpouring of love for his rogue brother. We will look deeper into each person that is part of this story.</p><p>Participants will discover how they are Worth It to Jesus. Each day, your group will see how Jesus wants each of us to know we are also valuable, loved, accepted, and worth it to him. No matter what we&rsquo;ve thought in the past. No matter what choices we&rsquo;ve made. We are all Worth It to Jesus!</p><p><strong>Sunday: Worth it. </strong>As we explore the parable of the prodigal son, we will discover a what God means when something, anything... anyone is &ldquo;Worth It.&rdquo; Everyone has worth in God&rsquo;s eyes, and we learn more by looking at the younger son, the older son, and the father.</p><p><strong>Monday: Worth. </strong>Our world shouts at us that so many things and items are worth a certain amount. But what is God&rsquo;s definition of worth? How does God decide the worth of anything or anyone? We will focus on God&rsquo;s definition of worth and learn how it applies to each of us.</p><p><strong>Tuesday: Lost. </strong>When we first read the story of the prodigal son, it&rsquo;s easy to see how the younger son was lost. It&rsquo;s obvious his mistakes lead to being &ldquo;lost&rdquo;. But the older son is just as lost as his younger brother. His choices and attitude are also a reflection of how being &ldquo;lost&rdquo; is part of his life.</p></div>

<div><div><div><p><strong>Wednesday: Found. </strong>The father of the parable son wants his younger son found. He is watching for him when he finally does return home. But the father also wants his older son found. The older son does not attend the party and so the father goes to find him. God wants us found also. God is looking for us just like the father looks for his sons.</p><p><strong>Thursday: Loved. </strong>One of the ways to describe the father in the prodigal son is to say, &ldquo;he loved his sons.&rdquo; He did. The father loved the younger son and the older son &ndash; equally. He desired to be with both his sons. God feels the same way about us. God loves us and wants to be with us.</p><p><strong>Friday: Celebrate. </strong>When the younger son comes home, the father throws a party. He is so excited to have both his boys home safe. Likewise, God celebrates when we come back to him.</p></div></div></div>
