---
title: Recruit Your Team
category: Workcamps
subcategory: Getting Started
order: 2
order_number: 2
---

Surround yourself with a great team\! We have learned over the years that a mission trip is best accomplished through teamwork. Between you, your leadership team, and our support–you can lead your students on an incredible, and incredibly organized, mission experience\!

Believe it or not, there are adults right in your own church, and probably in your youth ministry, who would be thrilled to help. They may even excel in areas where you struggle, so get them on your team now\!

Tips on recruiting your leadership team:

* Personally invite specific people to join your team. People best respond to a personal invitation compared to an announcement in the bulletin or a mass email. Give them a call, or better yet, treat someone to a coffee to share your excitement. Tell them why you think they would be a great addition to the leadership team.
* Give your leadership team responsibility and authority. Once you have asked for help, let them know they can take the reins on specific tasks to make it happen. Also, allow them the freedom to lead in their own way. Give leaders plenty of time so they can do their best and feel empowered by you.
* Recruit students to help. No one knows your student’s natural gifts and abilities better than you, so trust them with responsibilities of their own.
* Meet often. Whether it’s a 20-minute touch base before a youth group meeting or a separate meeting time altogether, keep your mission trip team in the loop. Regular time spent together will help your team bond and automatically improve communication.
* Snacks and refreshments are always a bonus for any team meeting\!

We have put together 7 sample roles for your leadership team to fill on the next page. We named them: Work Director, Break Maker, Devotion Leader, Organizer, Progress Reporter, Quartermaster, and Fundraiser Fanatic. We also listed what qualities to look for in each position and possible tasks for each person to take on.&nbsp;

<table><tbody><tr><td>ROLES</td><td>QUALITIES</td><td>POSSIBLE TASKS</td></tr><tr><td>WORK DIRECTOR<br /><br />(Youth Leader)</td><td><ul><li>Good communicator</li><li>Big picture thinker</li><li>Loves God and people</li><li>Encourager and team builder</li><li>Heart for ministry and service</li><li>Loves to see people grow</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Main contact with Group Mission Trips: ensures all deadlines are met (payments, forms, etc.)</li><li>Team leader. Responsible for the timeline</li><li>Leads monthly meetings</li><li>Assigns specific positions and tasks</li><li>Plans fundraisers</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>BREAK MAKER<br /><br />(Student, parent, or volunteer)</td><td><ul><li>Servant's heart</li><li>Gift of hospitality</li><li>In-house &ldquo;foodie&rdquo;</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Plans meals before, during, and after trip</li><li>Identifies options for free-time activities</li><li>Coordinates snacks</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>DEVOTIONLEADER<br /><br />(Could be a student, parent, or volunteer)</td><td><ul><li>Spiritual leader</li><li>Loves God and others</li><li>Loves praying</li><li>Team builder</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Leads prayer and devotions at meetings</li><li>Leads team building activities</li><li>Coordinates on the road devotions</li><li>Organizes the community donations</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>ORGANIZER<br /><br />(Adult may be best&ndash; it is not necessary that they attend)</td><td><ul><li>Detail-oriented</li><li>Great at follow-through</li><li>Loves organizing</li><li>Deadline conscious</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Ensures required adult ratio is met</li><li>Recruits youth participants</li><li>Tracks payments</li><li>Ensures completion of online forms</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>PROGRESS REPORTER<br /><br />(Former participant would be great in this role!)</td><td><ul><li>Good communicator</li><li>Outgoing and encouraging</li><li>Positive</li><li>Loves being &ldquo;up front&rdquo;</li><li>A &ldquo;Sales&rdquo; person</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Gathers a team to lead the publicity for the trip</li><li>Develops a plan to advertise the trip</li><li>Creates bulletin announcements and posts flyers</li><li>Plans the commissioning service</li><li>Plans welcome back/youth service after the trip</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>QUARTERMASTER<br /><br />(It's best if this person is an adult who is going on the trip)</td><td><ul><li>Organized planner</li><li>Detail-oriented</li><li>Resourceful</li><li>Problem solver</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Handles travel details including vehicles, drivers, trailers, etc.</li><li>Plans travel routes</li><li>Reviews transportation requirements with the team</li><li>Coordinates tools/ladders and/or other supplies (for Workcamps)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>FUNDRAISER FANATIC</td><td><ul><li>Computer savvy</li><li>Resourceful</li><li>Well connected in the church</li><li>Ministry/mission-minded</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Calculates amount needed for registrations, travel, food, etc.</li><li>Communicates with church board members about considering covering the cost of adults/leaders</li><li>Works with youth leader on fundraising</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
